.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH MOSH 1 "October 2012"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
mosh-server \- server-side helper for mosh
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mosh-server
new
[\-s]
[\-v]
[\-i \fIIP\fP]
[\-p \fIPORT\fP[:\fIPORT2\fP]]
[\-c \fICOLORS\fP]
[\-\- command...]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmosh-server\fP is a helper program for the 
.BR mosh(1)
remote terminal application.

\fBmosh-server\fP binds to a high UDP port and chooses an encryption
key to protect the session. It prints both on standard output,
detaches from the terminal, and waits for the \fBmosh-client\fP to
establish a connection. It will exit if no client has contacted
it within 60 seconds.

By default, \fBmosh-server\fP binds to a port between 60000 and
61000 and executes the user's login shell.

On platforms with \fButempter\fP, \fBmosh-server\fP maintains an entry
in the
.BR utmp(5)
file to indicate its process ID, whether the session is connected,
and the client's current IP address.

\fBmosh-server\fP exits when the client terminates the connection.

.SH OPTIONS

The argument "new" must be first on the command line to use
command-line options.

.TP
.B \-s
bind to the local interface used for an incoming SSH connection, given
in the \fBSSH_CONNECTION\fP environment variable (for multihomed
hosts)

.TP
.B \-v
Print some debugging information even after detaching.  More instances
of this flag will result in more debugging information.

.TP
.B \-i \fIIP\fP
IP address of the local interface to bind (for multihomed hosts)

.TP
.B \-p \fIPORT\fP[:\fIPORT2\fP]
UDP port number or port-range to bind.  \fB\-p 0\fP will let the
operating system pick an available UDP port.

.TP
.B \-c \fICOLORS\fP
Number of colors to advertise to applications through TERM (e.g. 8, 256)

.TP
.B \-l \fINAME=VALUE\fP
Locale-related environment variable to try as part of a fallback
environment, if the startup environment does not specify a character
set of UTF-8.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
These variables allow server-side configuration of Mosh's behavior.
They may be set by administrators in system login/rc files,
/etc/login.conf, or similar mechanisms, or users in their shell's
login/rc files.  \fBmosh-server\fP passes these variables to the login
session and shell that it starts, but changing them there will have no
effect.

.TP
.B MOSH_SERVER_NETWORK_TMOUT
If this variable is set to a positive integer number, it specifies how
long (in seconds) \fBmosh-server\fP will wait to receive an update from the
client before exiting.  Since \fPmosh\fP is very useful for mobile
clients with intermittent operation and connectivity, we suggest
setting this variable to a high value, such as 604800 (one week) or
2592000 (30 days).  Otherwise, \fBmosh-server\fP will wait
indefinitely for a client to reappear.  This variable is somewhat
similar to the \fBTMOUT\fP variable found in many Bourne shells.
However, it is not a login-session inactivity timeout; it only applies
to network connectivity.

.TP
.B MOSH_SERVER_SIGNAL_TMOUT
If this variable is set to a positive integer number, it specifies how
long (in seconds) \fBmosh-server\fP will ignore SIGUSR1 while waiting
to receive an update from the client.  Otherwise, \fBSIGUSR1\fP will
always terminate \fBmosh-server\fP.  Users and administrators may
implement scripts to clean up disconnected Mosh sessions.  With this
variable set, a user or administrator can issue

.nf
$ pkill -SIGUSR1 mosh-server
.fi

to kill disconnected sessions without killing connected login
sessions.

.SH EXAMPLE

.nf
$ mosh-server

MOSH CONNECT 60001 UAkFedSsVJs2LfMeKyQB5g

mosh-server (mosh 1.1)
[...] (copyright notice omitted)

[mosh-server detached, pid = 20443]
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mosh (1),
.BR mosh-client (1).

Project home page:
.I https://mosh.org

.br
.SH AUTHOR
mosh was written by Keith Winstein <mosh-devel@mit.edu>.
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to \fImosh-devel@mit.edu\fP. Users may also subscribe
to the
.nh
.I mosh-users@mit.edu
.hy
mailing list, at
.br
.nh
.I http://mailman.mit.edu/mailman/listinfo/mosh-users
.hy
.
