.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH MOSH 1 "February 2012"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
mosh-client \- client-side helper for mosh
.SH SYNOPSIS
MOSH_KEY=KEY
.B mosh-client 
[\-v]
IP PORT
.br
.B mosh-client 
\-c
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmosh-client\fP is a helper program for the 
.BR mosh (1)
remote terminal application.

\fBmosh\fP itself is a setup script that establishes an SSH
connection, runs the server-side helper \fBmosh-server\fP,
and collects the server's port number and session key.

\fBmosh\fP then executes \fBmosh-client\fP with the server's IP
address, port, and session key. \fBmosh-client\fP runs for
the lifetime of the connection.

The 22-byte base64 session key given by \fBmosh-server\fP is supplied
in the MOSH_KEY environment variable. This represents a 128-bit AES
key that protects the integrity and confidentiality of the session.

For constructing new setup wrappers for remote execution facilities
other than SSH, it may be necessary to invoke \fBmosh-client\fP
directly.

With the \-c option, \fBmosh-client\fP instead prints the number of colors
of the terminal given by the TERM environment variable.

The \-v option will print some debugging information on standard
error.  More instances of this flag will result in more debugging
information.  If standard error is not redirected from the terminal,
the display will be corrupted and quickly become unusable.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

.TP
.B MOSH_KEY
This variable must be set, and must contain a Base64-encoded cryptographic key from
.BR mosh-server (1).

.TP
.B MOSH_ESCAPE_KEY
See
.BR mosh (1).

.TP
.B MOSH_PREDICTION_DISPLAY
Controls local echo as described in
.BR mosh (1).

.TP
.B MOSH_TITLE_NOPREFIX
See
.BR mosh (1).


.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mosh (1),
.BR mosh-server (1).

Project home page:
.I https://mosh.org

.br
.SH AUTHOR
mosh was written by Keith Winstein <mosh-devel@mit.edu>.
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to \fImosh-devel@mit.edu\fP. Users may also subscribe
to the
.nh
.I mosh-users@mit.edu
.hy
mailing list, at
.br
.nh
.I http://mailman.mit.edu/mailman/listinfo/mosh-users
.hy
.
